Conky
=====

Conky is a wonderful system monitor available on Linux systems. This package
sets up Conky with my default configuration file, and also downloads and sets
up the different icons and fonts required by the theme to work.

Files
=====

This package has the following files:

  * **conkyrc**: The conkyrc file defines how the conky looks, feels and
behaves. The complete theme for the conky is embedded here.
  * **weather_update**: A simple bash script which downloads the weather data
from Yahoo! Weather, parses it and stores in a simple text file that can be
easily read to provide the weather details.
  * **get_weather**: An interface script which is called by a conky instance
to read the text file generated by /weather_update/ and print it out
  * **weather-update.service** A systemd user session service file for invoking
the /weather_update/ script to download and parse the weather conditions.
  * **weather-update.timer** A systemd timer unit file which fires periodically
calls the service file of the same name.

Others
======

The installer script will also download and install:

  * **Conky-weather**: A set of weather icons for displaying the current
weather conditions on screen.
  * **OpenSans-Light.ttf**: This is a very nice font face used heavily in the
conky config bundled with the package.

Notes
=====

The systemd unit files provided in this package are copied as a hard link to the
location of the systemd user session unit files. This is because systemd
sometimes creates problems with reading symlink'ed unit files. We also expect
that a systemd user session has already been set up.
